
<https://www.r-users.com/jobs/software-developer-with-r/>

A global, independent think tank on the integration of long-term and
climate-related objectives and risks into financial market metrics,
processes and regulation.

Since it was set up in 2012 with the mission to align financial markets
with climate goals, the 2° Investing Initiative (2°ii) has become a
pioneering think tank – with offices in Berlin, Paris, London and New
York – on the integration of long-term risks and policy objectives into
financial markets and regulatory frameworks. 2°ii developed the first
scenario analysis tool linking financial portfolios to public policy
objectives – specifically the 2°C climate goal – which is now applied to
over $10 trillion assets under management across more than 1,000
financial institutions, as well as a number of financial supervisors.
2°ii co-designed the first climate-related financial regulation in the
world (Art. 173 of the French Energy Transition Law). A core principle
of its mission is to reduce the transaction costs across companies,
financial institutions and policymakers, while guiding financial markets
towards the long-term future.

Current research includes development of climate alignment tools for
banks, market outlook reports and enhancement of existing, analytical
methods as well as a sustainability-ready, open-source robo-adviser.
2°ii has a multi-stakeholder and independent governance framework
designed to ensure the intellectual integrity of its work and its
independence.

mission to align financial markets with climate goals

# Who we are looking for

I’m intersted in your open position for a software developer with R
(<https://www.r-users.com/jobs/software-developer-with-r/>).

Here is how my skills match what you are looking for:

> A R Coder/Software Developer who is passionate about having a
> meaningful, global impact

  - I’m an R software developer at ForestGEO, a global network of
    scientists working to understand and predict forest dynamics in an
    era of rapidly changing landscapes and climate
    (<https://forestgeo.si.edu/mauro-lepore>).

  - These are two examples of my passion for having a meaningful, global
    impact:
    
      - [PhD thesis](http://bit.ly/mauro-lepore-phd-thesis) including a
        chapter (Chapter 2) exploring the potential of a coral reef
        system to constitute a refuge for corals from global
        warming.
    
      - [Paper](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/cobi.12997)
        explaining how to use historical data to make better
        conservation desicions.

> Genuine interest to improve our code/software infrastructure and
> related services

I have improved the code and related software infrastructure and
services of the organization I worked for. I loved the task and [was
highly successful](http://bit.ly/mauro-lepore-fgeo-performance-2018).
Now I would love to use my experience to help the 2 Degree Investing
Initiative align financial markets with climate goals.

For example, I created a [GitHub
organization](https://github.com/forestgeo) with multiple repositores,
transformed legacy code from [a collection of
functions](http://ctfs.si.edu/Public/CTFSRPackage/) to [a collection of
R packages](https://forestgeo.github.io/fgeo/) *sensu stricto*,
following best practices, including [full
documentation](https://forestgeo.github.io/fgeo/articles/siteonly/reference.html),
tests and [continous integration](https://travis-ci.org/forestgeo). I
also created a [blog](https://fgeo.netlify.com), an internal slack
workspace, interactive tutorials (see [Tutorials
tab](https://forestgeo.github.io/fgeo/)), a custom [CRAN-like
repository](https://forestgeo.github.io/drat/) to manage and serve the
release of internal packages, and more.

> Experience in library creation including application of continuous
> integration services to ensure code quality

I have two years of experience working full time and specifically as a
developer of [R
libraries](https://forestgeo.github.io/fgeo/index.html#installation),
using best practices including the aplication of [continuous
integration](https://travis-ci.org/forestgeo).

For example, for my current exmployer I built four main packages (a.k.a.
libraries) and a meta-package that installs them all with a single R
command ([fgeo](https://forestgeo.github.io/fgeo)). They are well tested
(e.g. [here](https://coveralls.io/github/forestgeo/fgeo.tool), and
[here](https://coveralls.io/github/forestgeo/fgeo.analyze)), and
configured with continuous integration, for every change to
automatically trigger all tests as well as the deployment of each
package’s website.

> Strong R skills (3+ years’ experience in software development with R
> in a working context), proficiency with git

Althought I officially became an R software develper less than three
years ago, I have informally worked as such for longer, and my total
experience with R dates back to 5 years ago. R was the only tool I used
for all the analyses I did during my PhD and postdoc. Also, because [I
am an active contributor to the R
community](http://bit.ly/mauro-lepore-about), I use R beyond my paid
work – meaning that my todal experience is greater than what my official
work hours suggest.

> A pro-active problem-solver with strong analytical skills and a good
> sense for code quality

I continuously solve problems, as I work independently with no coleague
or mentor. Thus I find solutions creatively and by asking some of the
best R developesr in the world. I was invited to [runconf 2018 in
Seattle](https://unconf18.ropensci.org/#participants), and that gave me
access to the private slack workspace of
[rOpenSci](https://ropensci.org/).

During my PhD and postdoc and

I developed strong analytical skills during my PhD and postdoc.

following best practices including [style
guides](https://style.tidyverse.org/) and [design
principles](https://principles.tidyverse.org/)

I developed a good sense for code quality via workshops (e.g. [Building
Tidy
Tools](https://blog.rstudio.com/2018/04/09/building-tidy-tools-workshop/)),
and books, [specific to R](http://r-pkgs.had.co.nz/) and beyond (e.g.
[The pragmatic
programmer](https://pragprog.com/book/tpp/the-pragmatic-programmer),
[Code
complete](https://www.amazon.com/Code-Complete-Practical-Handbook-Construction/dp/0735619670),
[Refactoring](https://martinfowler.com/books/refactoring.html), etc.)

> Further technical expertise, such as web development, data
> visualisation, GUI development (e.g. with RShiny) as well as
> experience with SQL and Docker is very welcome

I have experience building websites (e.g. [fgeo
website](https://forestgeo.github.io/fgeo/)),
[blogs](https://fgeo.netlify.com), [RShiny
apps](https://maurolepore.shinyapps.io/plottrait/), and [teaching basic
SQL](https://kokbent.github.io/2018-09-29-tamu-kingsville/).

> Fluent English

I am very fluent in English. Lived in English speaking countries for
almost 10 years now. I did a PhD in Australia and now work in the US.

More information:

  - LinkedIn: <https://www.linkedin.com/in/mauro-lepore/>
  - Contributions to the R community: <http://bit.ly/mauro-lepore-about>
  - Main work-project: <https://forestgeo.github.io/fgeo/>
  - Bio: <http://bit.ly/mauro-lepore>
