
  - [About](#about)
  - [Contributions to open software and reproducible
    research](#contributions-to-open-software-and-reproducible-research)
      - [Packages on CRAN](#packages-on-cran)
          - [datos: Traduce al Español Varios Conjuntos de Datos de
            Práctica](#datos-traduce-al-español-varios-conjuntos-de-datos-de-práctica)
          - [fgeo: Analyze Forest Diversity and
            Dynamics](#fgeo-analyze-forest-diversity-and-dynamics)
          - [fgeo.plot: Plot ForestGEO
            Data](#fgeo.plot-plot-forestgeo-data)
          - [fgeo.analyze: Analyze ForestGEO
            Data](#fgeo.analyze-analyze-forestgeo-data)
          - [fgeo.tool: Import and Manipulate ForestGEO
            Data](#fgeo.tool-import-and-manipulate-forestgeo-data)
          - [fgeo.x: Access Small ForestGEO Datasets For
            Examples](#fgeo.x-access-small-forestgeo-datasets-for-examples)
          - [tor: Import Multiple Files From a Single Directory at
            Once](#tor-import-multiple-files-from-a-single-directory-at-once)
      - [Software peer-review](#software-peer-review)
      - [Meetups](#meetups)
      - [Teaching](#teaching)
      - [Blogs:](#blogs)
      - [Other Contributions:](#other-contributions)
  - [Training](#training)
  - [Meetings](#meetings)
  - [Research](#research)
  - [Most recent grants and sponsors](#most-recent-grants-and-sponsors)
      - [2019](#section)
      - [2018](#section-1)
  - [Largest grant and sponsor](#largest-grant-and-sponsor)

### About

Mauro Lepore

[Twitter](https://twitter.com/mauro_lepore)
[R-blog](https://fgeo.netlify.com/) [R-channel](http://bit.ly/r-videos)
[R-packages](https://forestgeo.github.io/fgeo)
[GitHub](https://github.com/maurolepore)
[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/mauro-lepore)

I am an ecologist turned software developer and data science consultant.
I now work for a network of forest ecologists, building R packages and
passionately sharing resources with the researchers and students I
support ([bio](http://bit.ly/mauro-lepore)).

### Contributions to open software and reproducible research

#### Packages on CRAN

##### datos: Traduce al Español Varios Conjuntos de Datos de Práctica

2019-06 - present  
URL <https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=datos>

Provee una versión traducida de los siguientes conjuntos de datos:
‘airlines’, ‘airports’, ‘babynames’, ‘Batting’, ‘diamonds’,
‘faithful’, ‘flights’, ‘gapminder’, ‘gss\_cat’, ‘iris’, ‘mpg’,
‘mtcars’, ‘atmos’, ‘planes’, ‘presidential’, ‘table1’, ‘table2’,
‘table3’, ‘table4a’, ‘table4b’, ‘table5’, ‘vehicles’,‘weather’, ‘who’.
English: It provides a Spanish translated version of the datasets listed
above.

##### fgeo: Analyze Forest Diversity and Dynamics

2019-05 - present  
URL <https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=fgeo>

To help you access, transform, analyze, and visualize ForestGEO data, we
developed a collection of R packages
(<https://forestgeo.github.io/fgeo/>). This package, in particular,
helps you to install and load the entire package-collection with a
single R command, and provides convenient ways to find relevant
documentation. Most commonly, you should not worry about the individual
packages that make up the package-collection as you can access all
features via this package. To learn more about ForestGEO visit
<http://www.forestgeo.si.edu/>.

##### fgeo.plot: Plot ForestGEO Data

2019-05 - present  
URL <https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=fgeo.plot>

This package helps you to plot ForestGEO data.

##### fgeo.analyze: Analyze ForestGEO Data

2019-05 - present  
URL <https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=fgeo.analyze>

The goal of fgeo.analyze is to implement analyses of plot species
distributions, topography, demography, and biomass. It also includes a
torus translation test to determine habitat associations of tree species
as described by Zuleta et al. (2018) <doi:10.1007/s11104-018-3878-0>.

##### fgeo.tool: Import and Manipulate ForestGEO Data

2019-05 - present  
URL <https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=fgeo.tool>

The goal of fgeo.tool is to help you to easily import, filter, and
modify ForestGEO data.

##### fgeo.x: Access Small ForestGEO Datasets For Examples

2019-05 - present  
URL <https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=fgeo.x>

The goal of fgeo.x is to help you access small example datasets from
Luquillo, a ForestGEO site in Puerto Rico
(<https://forestgeo.si.edu/sites/north-america/luquillo>).

##### tor: Import Multiple Files From a Single Directory at Once

2019-01 - present  
URL <https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=tor>

The goal of tor (to-R) is to help you to import multiple files from a
single directory at once, and to do so as quickly, flexibly, and simply
as possible.

#### Software peer-review

  - [rOpenSci, gitignore
    package](https://github.com/ropensci/software-review/issues/303#issuecomment-496514351).
  - [ixpantia, ixplorer
    package](https://github.com/ixpantia/ixplorer/pull/1#issue-281177229).
  - [2DegreesInvesting, pacta
    package](https://github.com/2DegreesInvesting/pacta/pull/4#issue-280847664).

#### Meetups

  - May, 2019: Speaker for the webinar: “[Uso comun de
    Git](http://youtu.be/SVzyWV1Iep8)” (Spanish) for
    [DataLatam](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCOOcd7f7eJTDNxKLde3lfOQ).
  - Since April 2019: Attending biweekly meetups of [instructors for The
    Carpentries at the
    Smithsonian](https://datascience.si.edu/carpentries).
  - February - June 2019: Weekly [ixpantia
    masterclass](https://www.ixpantia.com/en/).
  - October, 2018: [Speaker at meetup GitHub for
    projects](http://bit.ly/2pOrRXo), Library of the National Museum of
    Natural History, Smithsonian Institution.
  - July-August, 2018: Presentations (built with and about R) at the
    [ForestGEO workshop in Czech Republic](http://bit.ly/event-cr18):
      - <http://bit.ly/cr18-r-intro>.
      - <http://bit.ly/cr18-projects>.
      - <http://bit.ly/cr18-pipes>.
      - <http://bit.ly/cr18-plots>.
  - August, 2018: [Speaker at meetup Research with GitHub, National
    Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian
    Institution](http://bit.ly/research-with-github).
  - June 27, 2018: [Teaching Assistant at meetup of RLadies-DC, led by
    Kelly
    O’Briant](https://twitter.com/kellrstats,%20https://www.meetup.com/rladies-dc/events/251799760/).
  - June, 2018: [Led meeting, with runconf18 folks, on building R
    packages](https://twitter.com/mauro_lepore/status/1008136303182008320).

#### Teaching

I am a [Certified instructor of The
Carpentries](http://bit.ly/mauro-lepore-carpentries-certificate), and
contribute to [data science training at the Smithsonian
Institution](https://datascience.si.edu/carpentries) and elsewhere:

  - May, 2019: [Smithsonian Spring 2019
    Edition](https://smithsonianworkshops.github.io/2019-05-16-castle/)
  - August, 2018: [Texas A\&M
    University-Kingsville](https://kokbent.github.io/2018-09-29-tamu-kingsville/).
  - June, 2018: [National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian
    Institution](https://smithsonianworkshops.github.io/2018-06-12-nmnh/).
  - March, 2018: [Smithsonian Environmental Research Center, Smithsonian
    Institution](https://smithsonianworkshops.github.io/2018-03-07-serc/).

#### Blogs:

  - January, 2018 - August, 2018: [My blog at
    ForestGEO](https://fgeo.netlify.com/)
  - July, 2018: [Invited post at ropensci.org about work following
    rOpenSci’s
    runconf18](https://ropensci.org/blog/2018/07/17/pkginspector/).
  - [Activity on
    community.rstudio](https://community.rstudio.com/u/mauro_lepore/summary)

#### Other Contributions:

  - Contributed to the book [Advanced R by Hadley
    Wickham](https://adv-r.hadley.nz/introduction.html#intro-ack)
  - Contributed to multiple, popular R-packages (e.g.:
    [dplyr](https://blog.rstudio.com/2017/06/13/dplyr-0-7-0/),
    [usethis](https://www.tidyverse.org/articles/2019/04/usethis-1.5.0/),
    [tidyr](https://www.tidyverse.org/articles/2018/02/tidyr-0-8-0/),
    [pkgdown](https://www.tidyverse.org/articles/2018/05/pkgdown-1-0-0/)).

### Training

  - January, 2019: [What they forgot to teach you about R aka Getting
    s\*%\! done in R](https://whattheyforgot.org/) - 2 days, by [Jenny
    Bryan](https://jennybryan.org/about/) and [Jim
    Hester](https://www.linkedin.com/in/jim-hester/). Austin, USA.
  - September, 2018: [Writing R functions for fun and
    profit](https://www.meetup.com/rladies-buenos-aires/events/253987224/)
    - 2h, by [Jenny Bryan](https://jennybryan.org/about/). Buenos Aires,
    Argentina.
  - September, 2018: [How to repeat yourself with
    purrr](http://latin-r.com/schedule/#session-3) - half day, by [Jenny
    Bryan](https://jennybryan.org/about/). Buenos Aires, Argentina.
  - September, 2018: [Visualización estática e interactiva de datos
    usando ggplot2 y plotly](http://latin-r.com/schedule/#session-1) -
    half day, by [Natalia da Silva](http://natydasilva.com/). Buenos
    Aires, Argentina.
  - June, 2018: [DataCarpentry instructor
    training](https://i.imgur.com/f86ieG4.png). Online.
  - June, 2018: [Introduction to the Smithsonian Institution High
    Performance Cluster (SI/HPC)](https://i.imgur.com/kObg0FC.png).
    Online.
  - May, 2018: [Building tidy
    tools](https://blog.rstudio.com/2018/04/09/building-tidy-tools-workshop/)
    - 2 days, by [Hadley Wickham](http://hadley.nz/). San Francisco,
    USA.

### Meetings

  - March, 2019: [chirunconf](https://chirunconf.github.io/#team),
    Chicago, USA.
  - January, 2019:[rstudio::conf](https://www.rstudio.com/conference/),
    Austin, USA.
  - September, 2018: [LatinR](https://i.imgur.com/TMYMQEf.png), Buenos
    Aires, Argentina.
  - July, 2018: [ForestGEO data analysis
    workshop](https://www.forestgeo.si.edu/2018-forestgeo-dynamics-workshop-czech-republic).
    2 weeks. Czech Republic.
  - May, 2018: [runconf18](http://unconf18.ropensci.org/#participants),
    Seattle, USA.

### Research

  - [Look to the past for an optimistic future (O’Dea et
    al. 2017)](https://goo.gl/U3aBC2).

### Most recent grants and sponsors

#### 2019

  - Diversity scholarship to attend the
    [chirunconf](https://chirunconf.github.io/), R Unconference in
    Chicago, USA (USD 300).
  - [Diversity
    scholarship](https://blog.rstudio.com/2018/08/10/rstudio-conf-2019-diversity-scholarships/)
    from rstudio to attend the conference rstudio::conf 2019 (USD
    3,000).

#### 2018

  - Professional development scholarship from the Australian Embassy in
    Buenos Aires (USD 1,600):
      - Workshop [Building tidy
        tools](https://blog.rstudio.com/2018/04/09/building-tidy-tools-workshop/),
        San Francisco, USA
      - [LatinR](http://latin-r.com/) conference, Buenos Aires,
        Argentina.
  - Academic discount from RStudio to attend the workshop [Building tidy
    tools](https://blog.rstudio.com/2018/04/09/building-tidy-tools-workshop/),
    San Francisco, USA (USD 1,200).
  - Scholarship to attend [rOpenSci](https://ropensci.org/)’s
    [runconf18](http://unconf18.ropensci.org/#participants), Seattle,
    USA (\~USD 1,500).

### Largest grant and sponsor

2011-2015: AusAid scholarship for PhD at the University of Queensland,
Australia (\~USD 190,000)
